DOCKER.md, before:

# Docker Deployment for React Design Systems MCP

This document provides instructions for deploying the React Design Systems MCP server using Docker.

## Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) installed on your system
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) (optional, for using docker-compose.yml)

## Quick Start

### Using Docker Compose (Recommended)

1. Clone this repository or download the source code
2. Navigate to the project directory
3. Run the following command:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

This will build the Docker image and start the container in detached mode.

### Using Docker Directly

1. Clone this repository or download the source code
2. Navigate to the project directory
3. Build the Docker image:

```bash
docker build -t react-design-systems-mcp .
```

4. Run the Docker container:

```bash
docker run -d -p 3005:3005 --name react-design-systems-mcp react-design-systems-mcp
```

## Accessing the Server

Once the container is running, the MCP server will be available via SSE (Server-Sent Events) at:

```
http://localhost:3005/sse
```

## Environment Variables

The following environment variables can be configured:

- `PORT`: The port on which the server will listen (default: 3005)
- `TRANSPORT_TYPE`: The transport type to use (set to 'sse' for SSE support)
- `BIND`: The address to bind to (default: 0.0.0.0)

## Managing the Container

### View Logs

```bash
# Using Docker
docker logs react-design-systems-mcp

# Using Docker Compose
docker-compose logs
```

### Stop the Container

```bash
# Using Docker
docker stop react-design-systems-mcp

# Using Docker Compose
docker-compose down
```

### Restart the Container

```bash
# Using Docker
docker restart react-design-systems-mcp

# Using Docker Compose
docker-compose restart
```

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter any issues with the Docker deployment, try the following:

1. Check the container logs for error messages
2. Verify that port 3005 is not being used by another application
3. Ensure that Docker has sufficient resources allocated
4. Try rebuilding the image with the `--no-cache` option:

```bash
docker build --no-cache -t react-design-systems-mcp .
```

## Security Considerations

- The SSE endpoint does not require authentication by default
- The server is configured to listen on all interfaces (0.0.0.0)
- Consider using a reverse proxy with TLS for production deployments

## Publishing to GitHub Container Registry

The Docker image for this project can be published to GitHub Container Registry (ghcr.io). This allows for easier distribution and versioning of the Docker image.

For detailed instructions on building and publishing the Docker image, see [Docker Publishing Guide](docs/docker-publishing-guide.md).

### Using the Published Image

Once published, you can use the image directly without building it locally:

```bash
# Pull the image
docker pull ghcr.io/agentience/react-design-systems-mcp:latest

# Run the container
docker run -d -p 3005:3005 --name react-design-systems-mcp ghcr.io/agentience/react-design-systems-mcp:latest
```

Or in your docker-compose.yml:

```yaml
services:
  react-design-systems-mcp:
    image: ghcr.io/agentience/react-design-systems-mcp:latest
    # other configuration...
```

Commit message:

Consolidate server files and simplify configuration
- Renamed server-fastmcp.ts to server.ts for clarity
- Updated all references to server files in documentation
- Replaced TRANSPORT_TYPE environment variable with --transport command-line argument
- Updated Docker configuration to use command-line arguments
- Updated build configuration to reference the new file structure

DOCKER.md, after:

# Docker Deployment for React Design Systems MCP

This document provides instructions for deploying the React Design Systems MCP server using Docker.

## Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) installed on your system
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) (optional, for using docker-compose.yml)

## Quick Start

### Using Docker Compose (Recommended)

1. Clone this repository or download the source code
2. Navigate to the project directory
3. Run the following command:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

This will build the Docker image and start the container in detached mode.

### Using Docker Directly

1. Clone this repository or download the source code
2. Navigate to the project directory
3. Build the Docker image:

```bash
docker build -t react-design-systems-mcp .
```

4. Run the Docker container:

```bash
docker run -d -p 3005:3005 --name react-design-systems-mcp react-design-systems-mcp
```

## Accessing the Server

Once the container is running, the MCP server will be available via SSE (Server-Sent Events) at:

```
http://localhost:3005/sse
```

## Environment Variables

The following environment variables can be configured:

- `PORT`: The port on which the server will listen (default: 3005)
- `BIND`: The address to bind to (default: 0.0.0.0)

Note: The server is configured to use SSE transport in Docker mode.

## Managing the Container

### View Logs

```bash
# Using Docker
docker logs react-design-systems-mcp

# Using Docker Compose
docker-compose logs
```

### Stop the Container

```bash
# Using Docker
docker stop react-design-systems-mcp

# Using Docker Compose
docker-compose down
```

### Restart the Container

```bash
# Using Docker
docker restart react-design-systems-mcp

# Using Docker Compose
docker-compose restart
```

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter any issues with the Docker deployment, try the following:

1. Check the container logs for error messages
2. Verify that port 3005 is not being used by another application
3. Ensure that Docker has sufficient resources allocated
4. Try rebuilding the image with the `--no-cache` option:

```bash
docker build --no-cache -t react-design-systems-mcp .
```

## Security Considerations

- The SSE endpoint does not require authentication by default
- The server is configured to listen on all interfaces (0.0.0.0)
- Consider using a reverse proxy with TLS for production deployments

## Publishing to GitHub Container Registry

The Docker image for this project can be published to GitHub Container Registry (ghcr.io). This allows for easier distribution and versioning of the Docker image.

For detailed instructions on building and publishing the Docker image, see [Docker Publishing Guide](docs/docker-publishing-guide.md).

### Using the Published Image

Once published, you can use the image directly without building it locally:

```bash
# Pull the image
docker pull ghcr.io/agentience/react-design-systems-mcp:latest

# Run the container
docker run -d -p 3005:3005 --name react-design-systems-mcp ghcr.io/agentience/react-design-systems-mcp:latest
```

Or in your docker-compose.yml:

```yaml
services:
  react-design-systems-mcp:
    image: ghcr.io/agentience/react-design-systems-mcp:latest
    # other configuration...
```
